WIP | Document CI / Devop pipelines (#1731)
ros-planning/navigation2: doc/continuous_integration/dockerhub.md

> # DockerHub Documentation

Author: The matching between tags and branches is explained further down, where the topic of tag build rules are first broached.

> # DockerHub Documentation

Reviewer: It does not example why/in what situation each are used for.

DockerHub is a service used to build docker images from the project's Dockerfiles, as well as a registry used to host tagged images built. Using a docker registry permits the project to offload much of the environmental setup from the rest of the CI pipeline. More info on DockerHub can be found here:

* [DockerHub](https://hub.docker.com/)
* [Docker Hub Quickstart](https://docs.docker.com/docker-hub)

> The tagged images on the project's repo in the registry are used by the CI pipeline to spawn containers to build and test the project. The advantage of hosting such images in a registry to readly pull from rather than merely re-building the Dockerfiles in CI tests enables frontloading much of the principled environmental setup prior to the start of CI jobs. This saves build time, spares resources/credits for other jobs, and helps to accelerate the development cycle. The project's DockerHub repo can be found here:

Author: This is already documented in the DockerFile and CircleCI sections, and is irrelevant to the docker registry service provider.

* [Navigation2 on DockerHub](https://hub.docker.com/r/rosplanning/navigation2)

> While DockerHub does not require the use of configuration files in the source repo, the Dockerfiles and respective scripts used to customize automated builds of images are tracked in the [`.dockerhub`](/.dockerhub) directory. These scripts include custom build phase hooks used by DockerHub during automated builds. More info on automated builds can be found here:

Author: The contents and use of any image tags is respectively documented in the DockerFile and CircleCI sections.
The docker registry only builds the Dockerfile and host the binary image blobs.
Although, the difference between release or debug tags is also described below.

> While DockerHub does not require the use of configuration files in the source repo, the Dockerfiles and respective scripts used to customize automated builds of images are tracked in the [`.dockerhub`](/.dockerhub) directory. These scripts include custom build phase hooks used by DockerHub during automated builds. More info on automated builds can be found here:

Reviewer: It is not, evidenced by my comment in that document as well with the same question

The build hooks, e.g. [build](/.dockerhub/debug/hooks/build) , serve a few purposes. The first being to customize docker commands to override build arguments denoted in the Dockerfile via the `ARG` directives, such as adjusting the colcon mixins for each workspace to enable code coverage, or disabling fail on build failure so the breakages in master don't block the building of CI images for master.

The build hooks secondly allow for the redirection of target Dockerfile and build context, given the use of `ARG` to parameterize the parent image to build `FROM` inhibits the normal use of repository links. This is a limitation of the Dockerfile parsing used by DockerHub to infer what repo/tag the build rule should trigger from. 

> As a workaround, the build rule points to a dummy Docker file that includes the desired parent image tag to build `FROM`, while the build hook then uses the main Dockerfile with the same `FROM_IMAGE`. This allows the slower debug CI to build and test only using the default RMW, while allowing the faster release CI jobs to build and test from an image with more RMWs installed.

Reviewer: I don't think this explains the "dummy dockerfile" thing

Author: We no longer use this complex workaround. Instead, we now trigger dockerhub builds using it's API via cron job rather than using the Autobuild setting. This has been now been simplified.

> ## Alternatives

Reviewer: I don't understand what this line to the bottom of the file is accomplishing, it seems to bring up a bunch of other stuff that isn't on topic and would confuse people

Author: These CI docs also describe the design, motivations, future work, as well as alternative options should we need to revisit some decisions. I'd rather keep the thoughts and alternate ideas in close proximity to where the relevant topics are discussed, just as we do with all other design docs for ROS2.

Reviewer: I think then this should be renamed as "Potential Future Architectures" to make it very clear this is not used in the current state of things

Automated Builds are controlled via the build configurations menu within the repo's administrative console on DockerHub. For reference, a figure of the project's build configurations is shown here:

![DockerHub Build Configurations](figs/dockerhub_build_configurations.png)

Here the repo's source repository is linked to the project's GitHub repo, while Autotest is disabled given a dedicated CI service is separately used to run test jobs. Repository linking can be used so that whenever a parent image repo is updated on DockerHub, it will also trigger a build for the project's DockerHub repository. Note that this only works for non-official library images, and only for build rules where Autobuild is is enabled. Two build rules are added for the main branch, providing both a release and debug tag for CI to pull from. The relative Dockerfiles paths are designated, while the build context is intentionally left empty, ensuring the build phase hooks within the same paths are used appropriately. Build caching is also enabled to shorten image turnaround time if multiple rebuilds a day are triggered.

> The build hooks, e.g. [build](/.dockerhub/debug/hooks/build) , are for customizing docker build arguments in the Dockerfile via the `ARG` directives; such as changing the base `FROM_IMAGE` between release or debug tags, adjusting the colcon mixins for each workspace to enable code coverage, or disabling fail on build failure, preventing source build breakages from blocking CI image tag updates. This also allows the slower debug CI to build and test only using the default RMW, while allowing the faster release CI jobs to build and test from an image with more RMWs installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The build hooks, e.g. [build](/.dockerhub/debug/hooks/build), are for customizing docker build `ARG`s in the Dockerfile; such as changing the base `FROM_IMAGE` between release or debug tags, adjusting the colcon mixins for each workspace to enable code coverage, or disabling fail on build failure, preventing source build breakages from blocking CI image tag updates. This also allows the slower debug CI to build and test only using the default RMW, while allowing the faster release CI jobs to build and test from an image with more RMWs installed.
```

## Autobuild

> While the free registry for hosting is great, allowing projects gigabytes of free storage/bandwidth to cache pre-configured images for various branches or CI scenarios, that would otherwise take CI instances far longer to rebuild from scratch rather than pull from the registry, the automated build integration for DockerHub is basic. Rather than trigging build rules via pushed commits to matching GitHub branches, Autobuild is left disabled and the Build Trigger API is used instead. This Build Trigger API is evoked from scheduled cron jobs to rate limit DockerHub rebuilds; e.g. preventing hourly merge commits from needlessly churning CI image tags.

Reviewer: This first sentence is too long and isn't structured readably, can you please break into a couple of sentences? 

At the end of this paragraph, say how we use it: "We have it set to run once a day". You explained the "what" but not the "how we use it".

### Build Trigger API

Rather than configuring the build rules on DockerHub, a build trigger URL can be generated for the linked repo and used to programmatically specify build parameters such as: tag names, context path, source branch or version, etc. More info on Build Trigger can be found here:

* [Remote Build Triggers](https://github.com/docker/docker.github.io/blob/v17.06-release/docker-hub/builds.md#remote-build-triggers)
  * Legacy docs on using build triggers
* [Example GitHub Action](https://github.com/osrf/docker_images/blob/master/.github/workflows/trigger_nightly.yaml)
  * Scheduled cron job used to rebuild a nightly image
* [Example Build Hook](https://github.com/osrf/docker_images/blob/master/ros2/nightly/nightly/hooks/post_push)
  * A hook to rebuild a child image post push or parent tag

> However, triggering builds via the API rather than relying on the DockerHub build rules also means forgoing the convenience of repository linking, where a repo's image can be sure to be rebuilt as soon as a new version of the parent image tag is pushed to the registry without needing to monitor the parent image repos oneself. This helps keep the CI environment uptodate and in sync with upstream development. However, for finer control flow when triggering DockerHub build rules, this API can be called from any scheduled cron job to periodically update images when a project is least active.

Reviewer: Explain the "why" and "how" this is used. You do a good job explaining the build trigger API,but not why you're telling us about it. "Where is this used in navigation2 and why?" is an open question that must be answered here. I think its for the cron jobs for regenerating docker images in Circle, so mention that.

> ## Alternatives

Reviewer: Can this go into a "Future Work" separate md file?

Author: Not really. The alternatives are listed for completeness, and should be listed in the same design document they are relevant to. These also aren't action items we'd necessarily seek to use for the future of nav2, just alternative options readers interested in this section should be made aware of.

Reviewer: OK, can we change the title then to "Other Considered Alternatives" to make it clear that these are not in use and aren't probably going to be put in use?
